\subsection{A na\"ive velvet scheme.}
In previous work~\cite{nipopows}, it was conjectured that superblock NIPoPoWs
remain secure under a velvet fork. We call this scheme the \emph{Na\"ive Velvet
NIPoPoW} protocol, because it is not dissimilar from the NIPoPoW protocol in the
soft fork case. In particular, the na\"ive velvet NIPoPoW protocol that was put
forth works as follows. Each upgraded honest miner attempts to mine a block $b$
that includes interlink pointers in the form of a Merkle Tree included in its
coinbase transaction. For each level $\mu$, the interlink contains a pointer to
the most recent among all the ancestors of $b$ that have achieved at least
level $\mu$, regardless of whether the referenced block is upgraded or not and
regardless of whether its interlinks are valid. Unupgraded honest nodes will
keep mining blocks on the chain as usual; because the status of a block as
superblock does not require it to be mined by an upgraded miner, the unupgraded
miners contribute mining power to the creation of superblocks as desired.

The prover in the na\"ive velvet NIPoPoWs then worked as follows. The honest
prover constructed the NIPoPoW proof $\pi \chi$ as usual by selecting certain
superblocks from his chain $\chain$ as representatives in $\pi$ and by setting
$\chi = \chain[-k{:}]$. The outstanding issue in this case, however, is that
these blocks in $\pi$ do not form a chain because, while superblocks, some of
them may not be upgraded and they may not contain any pointers (or they may
contain invalid pointers). The honest prover needs to provide a connection
between two consecutive blocks $\pi[i + 1]$ and $\pi[i]$ in the superchain, and
suppose $\pi[i]$ is the most recent $\mu$-superblock preceding $\pi[i + 1]$. The
block $\pi[i + 1]$ is a superblock and exists at some position $j$ in the
underlying chain $\chain$ of the prover, i.e., at $\pi[i + 1] = \chain[j]$. If
$\chain[j]$ is a smooth block, then the interlink pointer at level $\mu$ within
it can be used directly. Otherwise, the prover used the \emph{previd} pointer of
$\pi[i + 1] = \chain[j]$ to repeatedly reach the parents of $\chain[j]$, namely
$\chain[j - 1], \chain[j - 2], \cdots$ until a smooth block $b$ between $\pi[i]$
and $\pi[i + 1]$ was found in $\chain$. The block $b$ then contains a pointer to
$\pi[i]$, as $\pi[i]$ is also the most recent $\mu$-superblock ancestor of $b$.
The blocks $\chain[j - 1], \chain[j - 2], \cdots, b$ are then included in the
proof to illustrate that $\pi[i]$ is an ancestor of $\pi[i + 1]$.

The argument for why the above scheme work is as follows. First of all, the
scheme does not add many new blocks to the proof. In expectation, if a fully
honestly generated chain is processed, after in expectation $\frac{1}{g}$ blocks
have been traversed, a smooth block will be found and the connection to $\pi[i]$
will be made. Thus, the number of blocks needed in the proof increases by a
factor of $\frac{1}{g}$. Security was argued as follows: An honest party
includes in their proof as many blocks as in a soft forked NIPoPoW, albeit by
using an indirect connection. The crucial feature is that it is not missing any
superblocks. Even if the adversary creates interlinks that skip over some honest
superblocks, the honest prover will not utilize these interlinks, but will use
the ``slow route'' of level $0$ instead. The adversarial prover, on the other
hand, can only use honest interlinks as before, but may also use false
interlinks in blocks mined by the adversary. However, these false
interlinks cannot point to blocks that are of incorrect level. The reason is
that the verifier can look at the hash of each block to verify its level and
therefore cannot be lied to. The only problem a fake interlink can cause is that
it can point to a $\mu$-superblock which is not \emph{the most recent ancestor},
but some other block. It was then argued that the only other possibility was
to point to blocks that are older $\mu$-superblock ancestors in the same chain,
as illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:skip_ancestor}. However, the adversarial
prover can only harm herself by making use of these pointers, as the result will
simply by a superchain with fewer blocks.

\begin{figure}[h]
	\begin{center}
		\includegraphics[width=0.9\columnwidth]{figures/simple_thorny.pdf}
	\end{center}
    \caption{A thorny pointer of an adversarial block, colored black, in an honest party's chain. The thorny block points to a $1$-superboock which is an ancestor
		$1$-superblock, but not \emph{the most recent ancestor} $1$-superblock.}
	\label{fig:skip_ancestor}
\end{figure}

As such, we conclude that the honest verifier comparing the honest superchain
against the adversarial superchain will reach the same conclusion in the velvet
case as he would have reached in the soft fork case: Because the honest
superchain in the velvet case contains the same amount of blocks as the honest
superchain in the soft fork case, but the adversarial superchain in the velvet
case contains fewer blocks than in the soft fork case, the comparison will
remain in favor of the honest party. As we will see in the next section, this
conclusion is far from straightforward.
